docs/resources/flow.md, before:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "sym_flow Resource - terraform-provider-sym"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The sym_flow resource defines an approval workflow in Sym, allowing users to request temporary and auto-expiring access to sensitive resources.
---

# sym_flow (Resource)

The `sym_flow` resource defines an approval workflow in Sym, allowing users to request temporary and auto-expiring access to sensitive resources.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# The AWS integration depends on a role that provides access to the various
# things this flow needs to do in AWS.
resource "sym_integration" "runtime_context" {
  type = "permission_context"
  name = "aws-flow-context-test"
  label = "Runtime context"
  external_id = "123456789012"

  settings = {
    cloud       = "aws"
    external_id = "1478F2AD-6091-41E6-B3D2-766CA2F173CB" # optional
    region      = "us-east-1"
    role_arn    = "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/sym/RuntimeConnectorRole"
  }
}

resource "sym_integration" "slack" {
  type = "slack"
  name = "tf-flow-test"
  label = "Slack"
  external_id = "T1234567"
}

# A target is a thing that we are managing access to
resource "sym_target" "prod_break_glass" {
  type = "aws_sso_permission_set"
  name = "flow-test-prod-break-glass"
  label = "Prod Break Glass"

  settings = {
    permission_set_arn = "arn:aws:sso:::permissionSet/ins-abcdefghijklmnop/ps-2"
    # AWS Account ID
    account_id = "012345678910"
  }
}

# A strategy uses an integration to grant people access to targets
resource "sym_strategy" "sso_main" {
  type = "aws_sso"
  name = "flow-sso-main"
  label = "Flow SSO Main"
  integration_id = sym_integration.runtime_context.id
  targets = [ sym_target.prod_break_glass.id ]

  settings = {
    instance_arn = "arn:aws:::instance/ssoinst-abcdefghi12314135325"
  }
}

resource "sym_runtime" "this" {
  name       = "test-flow-runtime"
  label      = "Test Flow Runtime"
  context_id = sym_integration.runtime_context.id
}

resource "sym_environment" "this" {
  name       = "flow-sandbox"
  label      = "Flow Sandbox"
  runtime_id = sym_runtime.this.id

  integrations = {
    slack_id = sym_integration.slack.id
  }
}

# FLOW ##########

resource "sym_flow" "this" {
  name  = "sso_access"
  label = "SSO Access"

  implementation = "impl.py"

  environment_id = sym_environment.this.id

  params {
    strategy_id = sym_strategy.sso_main.id

    prompt_field {
      name     = "reason"
      type     = "string"
      required = true
      label    = "Reason"
    }

    prompt_field {
      name           = "urgency"
      type           = "string"
      required       = true
      allowed_values = ["Low", "Medium", "High"]
    }
  }
}


### impl.py (implementation file written in python)
from sym.sdk.annotations import reducer
from sym.sdk.integrations import slack


@reducer
def get_approvers(request):
    return slack.channel("#access-requests")
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `environment_id` (String) The ID of the Environment this Flow is associated with.
- `implementation` (String) Relative path of the implementation file written in python.
- `name` (String) A unique identifier for the Flow.

### Optional

- `label` (String) An optional label for the Flow.
- `params` (Block List, Max: 1) A set of parameters which configure the Flow. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--params))
- `vars` (Map of String) A map of variables and their values to pass to `impl.py`. Useful for making IDs generated dynamically by Terraform available to your `impl.py`.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--params"></a>
### Nested Schema for `params`

Optional:

- `additional_header_text` (String) Additional text to append to the header text displayed at the top of the Slack request modal, after the default header text. Supports Slack markdown.
- `allow_guest_interaction` (Boolean) Whether to allow guest users to interact with this sym_flow. If true, guest users can click the "Approve", "Deny", and "Revoke" buttons in Slack. If false, guest users' interactions with this sym_flow's requests will be rejected.'
- `allow_revoke` (Boolean) Whether access granted by a sym_strategy may be revoked before the requested duration is over. If true, shows a "Revoke" button in Slack that allows both the requester and approver to instantly revoke access. At least one of "schedule_deescalation" or "allow_revoke" must be true.
- `allowed_sources` (List of String) A list of sources from which this sym_flow may be invoked. Valid sources are: "slack", "api".
- `prompt_field` (Block List) Custom input field used to collect information from a user who is requesting access to a resource. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--params--prompt_field))
- `schedule_deescalation` (Boolean) Whether automatic access de-escalation will occur after a requested duration. If false, de-escalation will only occur when manually revoked. At least one of "schedule_deescalation" or "allow_revoke" must be true.
- `strategy_id` (String) The ID of a sym_strategy with sym_targets that this sym_flow will be managing access to. If not defined, this sym_flow will be approval-only.

<a id="nestedblock--params--prompt_field"></a>
### Nested Schema for `params.prompt_field`

Required:

- `name` (String) A unique identifier for this field.
- `type` (String) The type of data stored in this field. One of: "string", "int", "bool", "duration".

Optional:

- `allowed_values` (List of String) Defines the full list of valid choices for this field's value. If defined, this field will be displayed as a dropdown in Slack.
- `default` (String) A fallback value for optional fields if no value is provided.
- `label` (String) A name for the field, to be displayed in Slack.
- `prefetch` (Boolean) Whether a prefetch reducer will be used to populate the options for this field.
- `required` (Boolean) Whether this field is a required input.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# sym_flow can be imported using the slug (aka the name attribute)
# you can find a flow's slug by running `symflow resources list sym_flow`
terraform import sym_flow.sso_flow sso_access_prod
```

Commit message:

[SYM-4751] Improve documentation around sym_flow.vars type behavior

docs/resources/flow.md, after:

---
# generated by https://github.com/hashicorp/terraform-plugin-docs
page_title: "sym_flow Resource - terraform-provider-sym"
subcategory: ""
description: |-
  The sym_flow resource defines an approval workflow in Sym, allowing users to request temporary and auto-expiring access to sensitive resources.
---

# sym_flow (Resource)

The `sym_flow` resource defines an approval workflow in Sym, allowing users to request temporary and auto-expiring access to sensitive resources.

## Example Usage

```terraform
# The AWS integration depends on a role that provides access to the various
# things this flow needs to do in AWS.
resource "sym_integration" "runtime_context" {
  type = "permission_context"
  name = "aws-flow-context-test"
  label = "Runtime context"
  external_id = "123456789012"

  settings = {
    cloud       = "aws"
    external_id = "1478F2AD-6091-41E6-B3D2-766CA2F173CB" # optional
    region      = "us-east-1"
    role_arn    = "arn:aws:iam::123456789012:role/sym/RuntimeConnectorRole"
  }
}

resource "sym_integration" "slack" {
  type = "slack"
  name = "tf-flow-test"
  label = "Slack"
  external_id = "T1234567"
}

# A target is a thing that we are managing access to
resource "sym_target" "prod_break_glass" {
  type = "aws_sso_permission_set"
  name = "flow-test-prod-break-glass"
  label = "Prod Break Glass"

  settings = {
    permission_set_arn = "arn:aws:sso:::permissionSet/ins-abcdefghijklmnop/ps-2"
    # AWS Account ID
    account_id = "012345678910"
  }
}

# A strategy uses an integration to grant people access to targets
resource "sym_strategy" "sso_main" {
  type = "aws_sso"
  name = "flow-sso-main"
  label = "Flow SSO Main"
  integration_id = sym_integration.runtime_context.id
  targets = [ sym_target.prod_break_glass.id ]

  settings = {
    instance_arn = "arn:aws:::instance/ssoinst-abcdefghi12314135325"
  }
}

resource "sym_runtime" "this" {
  name       = "test-flow-runtime"
  label      = "Test Flow Runtime"
  context_id = sym_integration.runtime_context.id
}

resource "sym_environment" "this" {
  name       = "flow-sandbox"
  label      = "Flow Sandbox"
  runtime_id = sym_runtime.this.id

  integrations = {
    slack_id = sym_integration.slack.id
  }
}

# FLOW ##########

resource "sym_flow" "this" {
  name  = "sso_access"
  label = "SSO Access"

  implementation = "impl.py"

  environment_id = sym_environment.this.id

  params {
    strategy_id = sym_strategy.sso_main.id

    prompt_field {
      name     = "reason"
      type     = "string"
      required = true
      label    = "Reason"
    }

    prompt_field {
      name           = "urgency"
      type           = "string"
      required       = true
      allowed_values = ["Low", "Medium", "High"]
    }
  }
}


### impl.py (implementation file written in python)
from sym.sdk.annotations import reducer
from sym.sdk.integrations import slack


@reducer
def get_approvers(request):
    return slack.channel("#access-requests")
```

<!-- schema generated by tfplugindocs -->
## Schema

### Required

- `environment_id` (String) The ID of the Environment this Flow is associated with.
- `implementation` (String) Relative path of the implementation file written in python.
- `name` (String) A unique identifier for the Flow.

### Optional

- `label` (String) An optional label for the Flow.
- `params` (Block List, Max: 1) A set of parameters which configure the Flow. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--params))
- `vars` (Map of String) A map of variables and their string values to pass to `impl.py`. Useful for making IDs generated dynamically by Terraform available to your `impl.py`.

~> **Note:** While you may pass in other primitives (e.g. bool, int) as a value to `sym_flow.vars`, they will be cast to strings when you apply your configuration. When accessing these values in your `impl.py`, you will need to recast them into the correct types before using them.

### Read-Only

- `id` (String) The ID of this resource.

<a id="nestedblock--params"></a>
### Nested Schema for `params`

Optional:

- `additional_header_text` (String) Additional text to append to the header text displayed at the top of the Slack request modal, after the default header text. Supports Slack markdown.
- `allow_guest_interaction` (Boolean) Whether to allow guest users to interact with this sym_flow. If true, guest users can click the "Approve", "Deny", and "Revoke" buttons in Slack. If false, guest users' interactions with this sym_flow's requests will be rejected.'
- `allow_revoke` (Boolean) Whether access granted by a sym_strategy may be revoked before the requested duration is over. If true, shows a "Revoke" button in Slack that allows both the requester and approver to instantly revoke access. At least one of "schedule_deescalation" or "allow_revoke" must be true.
- `allowed_sources` (List of String) A list of sources from which this sym_flow may be invoked. Valid sources are: "slack", "api".
- `prompt_field` (Block List) Custom input field used to collect information from a user who is requesting access to a resource. (see [below for nested schema](#nestedblock--params--prompt_field))
- `schedule_deescalation` (Boolean) Whether automatic access de-escalation will occur after a requested duration. If false, de-escalation will only occur when manually revoked. At least one of "schedule_deescalation" or "allow_revoke" must be true.
- `strategy_id` (String) The ID of a sym_strategy with sym_targets that this sym_flow will be managing access to. If not defined, this sym_flow will be approval-only.

<a id="nestedblock--params--prompt_field"></a>
### Nested Schema for `params.prompt_field`

Required:

- `name` (String) A unique identifier for this field.
- `type` (String) The type of data stored in this field. One of: "string", "int", "bool", "duration".

Optional:

- `allowed_values` (List of String) Defines the full list of valid choices for this field's value. If defined, this field will be displayed as a dropdown in Slack.
- `default` (String) A fallback value for optional fields if no value is provided.
- `label` (String) A name for the field, to be displayed in Slack.
- `prefetch` (Boolean) Whether a prefetch reducer will be used to populate the options for this field.
- `required` (Boolean) Whether this field is a required input.

## Import

Import is supported using the following syntax:

```shell
# sym_flow can be imported using the slug (aka the name attribute)
# you can find a flow's slug by running `symflow resources list sym_flow`
terraform import sym_flow.sso_flow sso_access_prod
```
